# vehicle-parking-app
## Description <br/>
 It’s a multi user app which users can register and use the app  to book a spot at a particular parking location for 4 wheelers . Super-user can add , delete (if spots are not occupied ) or edit   parking lots  and view summary of lots/spots and user details.
Users can view their parking history summary on  parking .

## Technologies used  <br/>
 Python , Flask , Sqlite , HTML,CSS ,Bootstrap
 Python libraries : Matplotlib , SQLAlchemy 
Used Flask for backend login ,html css and Bootstrap for front end and styling . sqlite and SQLAlchemy for Database .
## DB Schema Design <br/>
Table users (user_id(PK),username(unique),pass_hash,name,u_email,is_superuser) : for storing user information. Is_superuser is used for differentiating regular users and admin . password hash is stored for security .
Table Location (loc_id(PK),loc_address,city,state,pincode) : since there can be many parking lot at one location a separate table is created for storing the location so that DB can be normalized and light .
Table Parkinglots (lot_id(PK),lot_name,loc_id(FK),max_spot,lot_price): for storing information like name , maximum number of spots and other details about parking Lots .If a lot is deleted Parking Spots related to that parking Lots get deleted as well.
Table PSpot(spot_id(PK),lot_id(FK),spot_no(unique),is_available ): To store Data related to each spot, Is_available attribute helps to keep track of whether a spot is occupied or not  ,spot_no is useful for keeping track of spots at a particular lot giving all the spot at that lot unique numbering.
 Table BookLot (b_id(PK),veh_no,spot_id(FK),u_id,(FK),start_time,end_time,total_amount, b_status):For storing information about parking spot Booking , stores user_id to keep record of which user occupied that spot, start_time to store when the spot was booked and end time to store when it was released.total_amount stores the amount paid by the user for the duration the occupied the spot for.b_status for storing the current status of the spot whether the user has  released it or not.
Table Payment(p_id(PK),b_id(FK),u_id(FK),amount,p_time,p_status ) : To store the details regarding the payment made by the user when the release a parking spot , time of payment and state of payment is also recorded in the db. (I was unable to use this table because of the time constraint ).
Here , PK: primary key ,FK : Foreign key
## Architecture and Features <br/>
app.py is the main entry point of the application residing in the root folder. Html templates are in templates/ folder, css and images are in static/ folder . controllers is in controllers/ folder which contain auth.py file where all the backend logic of the app is written . db Models are stored in models/ folder . The application/ folder has a db.py file which contains db connectivity logic. config.py file is used for handling configuration settings. Seed_db.py file was used for creating admin or super user for the application.
## How to run : <br/> 
make a python virtual env install the required frameworks and library and run app.py
The application is for booking parking spots for four wheelers . It has core features like role based access(admin/user). Users can register and login into the application(Super-user doesn't  need to register.) It have Parking Lot listings based on location. Management system for spot booking by users  . Admin can add ,edit lots , and can delete empty lots . admin can view summary about occupied and available spots , Revenue generated by each parking lot  in form of charts . User can book available spot , search parking lots based on city ,can view parking lot history and can view summary related to their parking history in form of chart 
